
#AODA

##ref:

[WCAG](https://www.w3.org/standards/webdesign/accessibility#examples)

[AODA](http://www.aoda.ca/guide-to-the-act/#standards)

##tip1

###General Practices for Digital & Print Mediums

1. Use high contrasting colours to differentiate foreground from background content (such as black text on a white background).
2. Do not rely on colour to convey information as many people are colour blind.
3. Use whitespace/negative space to help create hierarchy.
4. Use plain language, short sentences.
5. Spell out abbreviations when first introduced in a document or webpage.
6. 14pt to 18pt is ideal for readers with low vision. However, do note that ideal point sizes
vary with different typefaces and contexts.
7. Familiar fonts are easier to read, especially sans serif fonts such as Arial, Helvetica, and
Verdana.
8. Avoid using decorative fonts such as Blackmoor or Impact.
9. Use italics, all caps, underline, and bold sparingly.
10. Avoid using paper with metallic or glossy finishes.

###Additional Practices for Digital Documents & Websites

1. Use built-in document structuring features (e.g: Styles in Word) and tags.
2. Instead of having hyperlinks that read ‘click here’ have links that describe the content of
the link as some assistive technology reads links at the end of a webpage rather than as
they are encountered.
3. Match the title of the hyperlink with the visible text so that voice controlled software will
know which link the user wants to open.
4. Add alternative (ALT) text to images to include basic and unbiased information.
5. Place images “In-line with text” not “floating”.
6. Use styles/tagging to create hierarchy within a document or webpage.
7. Avoid using breaks, tabs, or space to format your webpage or document.
8. Set the document language in the Document Properties.
9. Use accessibility checkers in addition to manual tests of your documents and webpages,
such as Adobe Acrobat Pro’s built-in full accessibility checker or AChecker (free) for
websites.
10. When including pictures with text content in emails (e.g: invitations, e-cards), write out
the text below the picture in the body of the email.





